Scraped on Monday, 2023-08-28 at 21:32:58.786835
Headline: Inside the largest Loch Ness Monster hunt in decades
Article Content:
LOCH NESS, Scotland — The legend of the Loch Ness Monster has fascinated generations of curious minds. This weekend, 90 years after its first modern supposed sighting, enthusiasts descended again on this picturesque lake in a quiet corner of the Scottish Highlands in the hopes of turning myth into reality.
Organizers billed the past weekend as the largest organized “Nessie” hunt for 50 years.
And the hunters came armed with high-tech help: sonars for mapping the lake bed, thermal-imaging drones for scanning the surface and hydrophones to hear strange sounds from the depths.
The events were even opened to the global public — hundreds were invited to a livestream of the water’s surface to add more eyes to the search.
--------------------------------------------------
Headline: Spanish prosecutors investigating soccer president who kissed World Cup player
Article Content:
Spanish prosecutors opened an investigation of the nation's soccer federation chief, officials said Monday, in connection to his kiss on the lips of a player shortly after winning the World Cup.
The national prosecutors also invited the player, Spain's team captain Jennifer Hermoso, to reach out to them in the next 15 days to report herself as a possible victim of sexual aggression by federation president Luis Rubiales, officials said.
Women and soccer fans across the globe were stunned when Rubiales kissed Hermoso flush on the lips during the medal ceremony following Spain’s thrilling, 1-0 victory over England, in Sydney a week ago Sunday.
Hermoso has said the kiss wasn't consensual and that “I felt vulnerable and a victim of an impulse-driven, sexist, out-of-place act without any consent on my part.”
Meanwhile, also on Monday, Ángeles Béjar, Rubiales's mother, went on a hunger strike to protest action against her son.
Béjar took refuge in the church of the Divina Pastora de Motril on the southern Spanish coast and defended her son. The mother said her hunger strike will run “indefinitely, day and night,” Spanish news agency EFE reported.
“My son does not deserve what they are doing to him,” she said, adding that he's the target of an “inhuman and bloody hunt.”
The sport's international governing body, FIFA, on Saturday suspended Rubiales from all soccer activities for 90 days.
Rubiales has been defiant in the face of withering, worldwide criticism calling the kiss “spontaneous, mutual, euphoric and consensual."
He's refused to resign.
His cousin, Vanessa Ruiz Béjar, told reporters outside the church that their family is suffering greatly from this controversy.
“That she doesn’t want to leave the church, that his family, we, are suffering very much for him, that we don’t think what’s happening is just," she said. "We want to be left in peace and that justice be done, and that this woman tells the truth.”
The kiss has marred what had been joyous national celebration of La Roja's first time lifting the Women's World Cup trophy.
Spain  joined an elite club of nations to have won women's soccer's most coveted trophy, alongside the United States, Germany, Japan and Norway.
But now the worldwide attention on Spain has centered on its patriarchal culture and the growing support for Hermoso.
The phrase "Contigo, Jenni," or "with you, Jenni," has been used as a social media hashtag and handwritten on shirts, arms and even athletic tape of players across the world in recent days.
--------------------------------------------------
Headline: U.K. flights delayed and canceled after 'technical issue' hits air traffic control
Article Content:
LONDON — Britain's air traffic control system said it was hit by a technical issue on Monday that threatened delays and cancelations to flights in and out of the country on a busy national holiday.
"We are currently experiencing a technical issue and have applied traffic flow restrictions to maintain safety," a spokesperson with Britain's National Air Traffic Service told NBC News just after 12:30 p.m. local time (7:30 a.m. ET).
It said engineers were working to find and fix the fault, but it was not clear how long it would take to resolve the issue.
In the meantime, a spokesperson said air traffic personnel were having to input flight plans manually.
"This morning’s technical issue is affecting our ability to automatically process flight plans," they said. "Until our engineers have resolved this, flight plans are being input manually which means we cannot process them at the same volume, hence we have applied traffic flow restrictions."
"Our technical experts are looking at all possible solutions to rectify this as quickly as possible," they said.
London's biggest international hub, Heathrow Airport, said that "as a result of national airspace issues there is disruption to flights across the UK."
Stansted and Gatwick Airports in London as well as Manchester Airport in the north of England said that flights were impacted by the issue.
European air traffic authority Eurocontrol warned of “very high” delays because of a “flight data processing system failure” in the U.K.
Earlier, Scottish airline Loganair said in a post on X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, that a "network-wide failure of UK air traffic control computer systems" had occurred early Monday.
The airline said it was hopeful it would be able to operate most intra-Scotland flights with a minimum of disruption, but said north-south and international flights could be subject to delays as a result of the issue.
The incident comes on a busy travel day for U.K. residents, with Monday a nationwide public holiday.
A number of social media users said they were stuck on planes on the tarmac. NBC News was not immediately able to verify their accounts.
One traveler who told Reuters that they were on a plane being held on the tarmac at Budapest said the pilot informed passengers that they were delayed due to a massive computer failure.
They said passengers faced a possible 8 to 12-hour delay. NBC News was not immediately able to verify that.
This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.
--------------------------------------------------
